Client Fingerprinting
The process of client fingerprinting
is extremely critical to the
success of our attack,
but to obtain the most
precise information
we must often gather it from
the target machine itself.
Let’s assume we have
convinced our victim
to visit our malicious web page
in a practical example.
Our goal will be to identify the
victim’s web browser version
and gather information about
the underlying operating system.
We could create our own custom tool,
but there are many available
open-source fingerprinting projects.
The most reliable are generally
those that directly leverage
common client-side components
such as JavaScript.
For this example, we will use the
Fingerprintjs2 JavaScript library,
which can be installed by downloading
and extracting the project archive
from its GitHub repository:
Let’s unzip the Fingerprint application,
move it to the fp directory,
and incorporate this library
into an HTML file
based on the examples included
with the project.
We'll include the fingerprint2.js library
from within the fingerprint2.html
HTML file
located in the fp directory of
our Kali web server.
The JavaScript code invokes the
Fingerprint2.get static function
to start the fingerprinting process.
The components variable returned
by the library is an array containing
all the information extracted
from the client.
The values stored in the components
array are used to create a hash
fingerprint of the browser, which is
assigned to the murmur variable.
Finally, the same values are extracted
and displayed in the HTML page.
In our Windows client, we’ll
simulate a victim
navigating to the
fingerprinting web page.
The web page in our
Windows lab machine
reveals that these few lines
of JavaScript code
extracted the Windows
browser User Agent string,
its localization,
the installed browser plugins
and relative version,
generic information
regarding the underlying
win32 operating system platform
and other details.
Submitting this User Agent string
to an online user agent database,
identifies the browser version
and operating system as Edge 41
running on the 32-bit
version of Windows 10.
We managed to gather the
information we were after,
but the JavaScript code displays data to
the victim rather than to the attacker.
This is obviously not very useful
so we need to find a way to transfer
the extracted information to
our attacking web server.
We’ll create a file that will act
as a fingerprinting web page
and add a few lines of Ajax code to
send the data back to our web server.
In this code, the XMLHttpRequest
JavaScript API
interacts with the attacking
web server via a POST request.
The POST request is issued
against the same server
where the malicious web
page is stored,
therefore the URL used in the xmlhttp.open
method does not specify an IP address.
The components array,
which contains the information
extracted by the Fingerprint2 library,
is processed by a few lines of JavaScript
code, similar to the previous example.
This time, however, the resultant
output string, the clientfp variable,
is sent to js.php via
a POST request.
Let’s look at the js.php PHP code
that processes the POST
request on the attacking server:
The PHP code first extracts
the client IP address,
from the $_SERVER array,
which contains server and execution
environment information.
Then the IP address is concatenated
to the text string
received from the JavaScript
POST request,
and written to the fingerprint.txt
file in the fp directory.
Notice the use of the FILE_APPEND flag,
which allows us to store multiple
fingerprints to the same file.
In order for this code to work, we need
to allow the Apache www-data user
to write to the fp directory.
To do this, we’ll change the owner of
the fp directory to www-data.
Once the victim browses the
fingerprint2server.html web page,
we can inspect the contents of
fingerprint.txt on our attack server.
The XMLHttpRequest
silently transferred the data
to our attack server without
any interaction from the victim.